---
layout: post
title:  "ASE 16 and Kerberos"
date:   2020-05-16 08:18:45 +0100
---

I follow and manage www.freetds.org project. The project provided open
source drivers for Microsoft SQL Server and Sybase ASE servers (they
use the same family of network protocol).

Both supports kerberos authentication but this is currently lacking in FreeTDS.
One guy helped me providing the setup and testing my patches but for
future testing and to be a bit independent I decided to setup ASE with
kerberos on my test environment.

## Kerberos server

If you have a VM is probably a good time for a snapshot.

I use an Ubuntu 18.04 LTS so I found this article [Ubuntu krb5].

Some changes I made:
1. I use the same machine as server and client, not a production
   recommendation but fine for testing. Most of the steps to configure
   the client are not necessary (only install the packages);
2. I tested just doing a `kinit test@DOMAIN.IO` (`test` is a principal
   I created);
3. If you have a `krb5.conf` file already (it was my case) make sure
   to set the domain you are configuring *BEFORE* installing the
   packages, otherwise you'll have to do some more manual
   configuration.

## Setting Sybase server

I mainly followed this article [Sybase krb5].

The principal name for the server has to be the same of the section
name in the `interfaces` file (point 2).

To export the keytab I followed [keytab], specifically the command
`xst -k <FILENAME> <SERVER_NAME>@<KRB5_DOMAIN>` (point 3).

If you are using a 64 bit version (you should), use `libsybskrb64.so`
and edit `libtcl64.cfg` file (point 6). To find the right shared
object name I used a `find /usr/ -name libgssapi_krb5.so\*`.

To use `isql` utility use `isql_r64` command, `isql64` did not work
for me due to some missing symbol. Also, other than `SYBASE`
environment (in my case `/opt/sybase16`) you have to set `SYBASE_OCS`
(in my case `OCS-16_0`, name of directory in `$SYBASE`) otherwise
`iql_r64` won't attempt to use kerberos.

I hope these notes could help some other people, some issues took
some time to fix.

[Ubuntu krb5]: https://www.howtoforge.com/how-to-setup-kerberos-server-and-client-on-ubuntu-1804-lts/
[Sybase krb5]: http://infocenter.sybase.com/help/index.jsp?topic=/com.sybase.infocenter.dc31654.1550/html/sag1/sag1768.htm
[keytab]: https://docs.cloudera.com/documentation/enterprise/5-5-x/topics/cdh_sg_kadmin_kerberos_keytab.html
