---
layout: post
title:  "Emulated s390x"
date:   2020-04-25 15:26:22 +0100
---

Some days ago I wanted to fix a bug addressing an issue with S390x.

I suspected an endianness issue of some sort.

Today big endian machines are getting hard to find, even Power is
moving to little endian. Some platform which are still big endian are
MIPS and s390x. I had an installed emulated MIPS machine but I wanted
to try to install a s390x machine due to some issue with the MIPS one:
1. it's difficult to update, it's still bases on some old Malta
   machine;
2. it's pretty slow. I'm not able to enable multiple processors and
   also Qemu user space stopped working (it crashes) from some time
   so compiling software is terribly slow;
3. the maximum amount of ram is low and this makes compilations even
   slower;
4. the machine is launched manually, I wanted to use virt-manager
   and libvirt instead, easier to manage.

There is an emulator called Hercules which seems quite used and
complete but from what I read it's not easy to setup and not that fast
(probably offers a good emulation compromising speed).

I read quite some articles here and there, lot configuring disks and
multiple files (see [1] for instance).
After multiple attempts (which considering the speed of machine having
to emulate the CPU took some time) I manage to install an Ubuntu VM
(nothing specifically in favour but it was the first that works
without much efforts).

So:
1. download Ubuntu server for s390x (filename was
   `ubuntu-18.04.4-server-s390x.iso`);
2. install `qemu-system-s390x` package;
3. open virt-manager;
4. create a s390x machine passing the downloaded ISO image (I used a
   new disk of 20 GB, default, 1 CPU only for the installation);
5. start installation;
6. at some point it will ask if you want to continue using console or
   a SSH connection. I chose the SSH;
7. connect with SSH to the VM and finish installation (I chose to
   install SSH server and basic server only). 

Fine machine was working, managed by virt-manager, pretty new
software, no problem with memory (assigned 3gb) so I solved the issues
1, 3 and 4 I had with the MIPS VM.
For the issue 2 I changed from virt-manager the number of CPUs to 4
but trying load the VM the host CPU usage was only about 100% meaning
no multiple CPUs on the host are used.

To fix issue 2:
1. launch a `virtsh edit <vm-name>`;
2. change `domain` opening tag to `<domain type='qemu'
   xmlns:qemu='http://libvirt.org/schemas/domain/qemu/1.0'>`;
3. add, at the end, inside `domain` tag:
{% highlight xml %}
  <qemu:commandline>
    <qemu:arg value='-accel'/>
    <qemu:arg value='accel=tcg,thread=multi'/>
  </qemu:commandline>
{% endhighlight %}

Now the VM is using more power and compilation time is reduced.

[1]: https://astr0baby.wordpress.com/2018/06/03/installing-ubuntu-18-04-server-s390x-in-hercules-mainframe-simulator/
